# Estimates-of-persistent-inward-current-in-human-motor-neurons-during-postural-sway
Persistent inward current (PIC) plays a critical role in setting the gain of spinal motor neurons.  In humans, most estimates of PIC are made from plantarflexor or dorsiflexor motor units in a seated position.  This seated and static posture negates the task-dependent nature of the monoaminergic drive and afferent inhibition that modulate PIC activation.  Our purpose was to estimate PIC during both the conventional seated posture and in a more functionally-relevant anterior postural sway.  We hypothesized that ∆F estimates of PIC would be greater during standing compared to sitting.  Soleus motor neuron PIC was estimated via the paired motor unit (PMU) technique. For each motor unit pair, ∆F estimates of PIC were made during isometric ramps in plantarflexion force while seated (conventional approach) and during standing anterior postural sway. Baseline reciprocal inhibition (RI) was also measured in each posture using the post-stimulus time histogram (PSTH) technique.  ∆F estimates during standing postural sway were not different (2.64 ± 0.95, p=0.561) from seated PIC estimates (3.15 ± 1.45) measured from the same motor unit pair. Similarly, reciprocal inhibition at the onset of each task was the same in standing (-0.60 ± 0.32, p=0.301) and seated (-0.86 ± 0.82) postures.  PMU recordings made during standing postural sway met all assumptions which underlay the PMU technique, including rate modulation ≥ 0.5pps(3.11 ± 1.90), rate-rate correlation r2 ≥ 0.5(0.84 ± 0.13), and time between reference and test unit recruitment ≥1s(1.83 ± 0.81s).  This study presents a novel, functionally-relevant standing method for investigating PIC in humans.
